The program is designed to help users improve their typing skills through comprehensive performance measurement. I am trying to create an assessment tool similar to monkeytype.com that provides a text that the user inputs and then a detailed analysis of typing performance. The application will calculate gross WPM, net WPM, the time the user took, the number of errors, etc. The program will do this by using complex formulas along with methods and data fields to implement an engaging software. I can also try to have a number of different prompts that randomly assign when the user starts the program. The program will then use the selected prompt and calculate the number of characters in it using the .length function. We can find if the typed characters match the original ones using a for loop that checks if they are equal. The program can then calculate how many correct and incorrect characters there were to calculate accuracy. We can then use the number of characters combined with time elapsed to calculate gross WPM. To calculate the net WPM, we would also need to include accuracy into the formula. Finally, we combine all of this into a nice and simple interface. I could also add text at the very end and match the WPM to an animal. For example, if you typed 80 WPM, I would say you typed as fast as a cheetah can run. If I have enough time, perhaps I could also implement difficult systems like EASY, MEDIUM, or HARD to make the text harder or easier to type. In addition to difficulty, I can make genres for the user to choose from like science or technology to make it interesting. I can also make selections for SHORT and LONG. I also want to implement a retry option that will reset the program to either the same text or a different text depending on what the user wants. Some problems that could be that I don’t necessarily have an idea on how to calculate how much time has passed since the user begins typing as well as how to generate new texts without using arrays.
